jan SL rn (#4796)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/release-notes/73-Jan-2024/jan-sl-updates.md

---
title: "dbt Semantic Layer updates and fixes for January 2024"
description: "January 2024: New Exports feature, Conversion Metrics, Enhanced metrics labels, Support for shorthand to create metrics and Tableau Parameter filters, and bug fixes."
sidebar_label: "Update and fixes: dbt Semantic Layer"
sidebar_position: 08
date: 2024-01-31
---
The dbt Labs team continues to work on adding new features, fixing bugs, and increasing reliability for the [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl).

The following list explains the new features, updates, and fixes for January 2024 in more detail.

## New features

> - **Introducing Conversion metrics** &mdash; This is a new metric type that allows you to easily measure conversions events, for example users who viewed a web page and then filled out a form. You can learn more about [conversion metrics in our docs](/docs/build/conversion).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Introducing Conversion metrics** &mdash; This new metric type allows you to measure conversion events easily. For example, users who viewed a web page and then filled out a form. You can learn more about [conversion metrics in our docs](/docs/build/conversion).
```

> - **Introducing Exports** &mdash; Use Exports to materialize saved queries within the data platform on a schedule. It uses the dbt Cloud job scheduler to execute saved queries for reliable and fast data reporting.

Author: confirm if live by then and add links

- **Simplified dimension resolution** &mdash; Instead of specifying the fully qualified dimension name (for example, `order__user__country`) in the group by or filter expression, you now only need to provide the primary entity and dimensions name, like `user__county`.

> - **Query saved queries** &mdash; You can now query the [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) you've defined in the dbt Semantic Layer in GraphQL, JDBC, and the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Query saved queries** &mdash; You can now query the [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) you've defined in the dbt Semantic Layer using [GraphQL API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-graphql), [JDBC API](docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc), and the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).
```

---
title: "dbt Semantic Layer updates and fixes for January 2024"
description: "January 2024: New Exports feature, conversion metrics, enhanced metrics labels, support for shorthand to create metrics and Tableau parameter filters, and bug fixes."
sidebar_label: "Updates and fixes: dbt Semantic Layer"
sidebar_position: 08

> date: 2024-01-31

Author: ```suggestion
tags: [Jan-2024]
date: 2024-01-31
```

## Updates

- **Display `label` for dbt Semantic Layer metrics** &mdash; The YAML spec parameter `label` is now available for Semantic Layer metrics in [JDBC and GraphQL APIs](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview). This means you can conveniently use `label` as a display name for your metrics when exposing them.
- **Use shorthand to create metrics** &mdash; Added support for `create_metric: true` for a measure, which is a shorthand to quickly create metrics. This is useful in cases when metrics are only used to build other metrics.
- **Support for Tableau parameter filters** &mdash; Added support for Tableau parameter filters. You can use the [Tableau connector](docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/tableau) to create and use parameters with your dbt Semantic Layer data.
- **Additional parameters for GraphQL API** &mdash;  Added support to expose `expr` and `agg` for [Measures](/docs/build/measures) in the [GraphQL API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-graphql).

> - **Improved error messages** &mdash; When querying a dimension that is not reachable for a given metric, you now have improved error messages returned in the command line interface.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved error messages** &mdash; You have improved error messages in the command line interface when querying a dimension that is not reachable for a given metric.
```

---
title: "dbt Semantic Layer updates and fixes for January 2024"

> description: "January 2024: New Exports feature, Conversion Metrics, Enhanced metrics labels, Support for shorthand to create metrics and Tableau Parameter filters, and bug fixes."

Reviewer: sugg: capitalizations 

```suggestion
description: "January 2024: New Exports feature, conversion metrics, enhanced metrics labels, support for shorthand to create metrics and Tableau parameter filters, and bug fixes."
```

> sidebar_label: "Update and fixes: dbt Semantic Layer"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Updates and fixes: dbt Semantic Layer"
```

sidebar_position: 08
date: 2024-01-31
---
The dbt Labs team continues to work on adding new features, fixing bugs, and increasing reliability for the [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl).

The following list explains the new features, updates, and fixes for January 2024 in more detail.

## New features

> - **Introducing Conversion metrics** &mdash; This new metric type allows you to measure conversion events easily. For example, users who viewed a web page and then filled out a form. You can learn more about [conversion metrics in our docs](/docs/build/conversion).

Reviewer: sugg: slightly more concise 

```suggestion
- **Conversion metrics** &mdash; New metric type that allows you to measure conversion events. For example, users who viewed a web page and then filled out a form. For more details, refer to [Conversion metrics](/docs/build/conversion).
```

Author: removed easily per previous feedback during mentorship @nghi-ly about 'non value words' 😜

> - **Introducing Exports** &mdash; Use Exports to materialize saved queries within the data platform on a schedule. It uses the dbt Cloud job scheduler to execute saved queries for reliable and fast data reporting.

Author: @rpourzand @Jstein77 sugg removing exports 
```suggestion
```

> - **Introducing Exports** &mdash; Use Exports to materialize saved queries within the data platform on a schedule. It uses the dbt Cloud job scheduler to execute saved queries for reliable and fast data reporting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Exports** &mdash; Use Exports to materialize saved queries within the data platform on a schedule. It uses the dbt Cloud job scheduler to execute saved queries for reliable and fast data reporting.
```

Author: leaving this unresolved as it may be removed

Author: double checked with PM to see if we're removing this

- **Simplified dimension resolution** &mdash; Instead of specifying the fully qualified dimension name (for example, `order__user__country`) in the group by or filter expression, you now only need to provide the primary entity and dimensions name, like `user__county`.

> - **Query saved queries** &mdash; You can now query the [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) you've defined in the dbt Semantic Layer using [Tableau](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/tableau), [GraphQL API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-graphql), [JDBC API](docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc), and the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Saved queries** &mdash; You can now query the [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) you've defined in the dbt Semantic Layer using [Tableau](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/tableau), [GraphQL API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-graphql), [JDBC API](docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc), and the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).
```

## Updates

- **Display `label` for dbt Semantic Layer metrics** &mdash; The YAML spec parameter `label` is now available for Semantic Layer metrics in [JDBC and GraphQL APIs](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview). This means you can conveniently use `label` as a display name for your metrics when exposing them.

> - **Use shorthand to create metrics** &mdash; Added support for `create_metric=true` for a measure, which is a shorthand to quickly create metrics. This is especially useful in cases when metrics are only used to build other metrics.

Reviewer: sugg: conciseness

```suggestion
- **Use shorthand to create metrics** &mdash; Added support for `create_metric=true` for a measure, which is a shorthand to quickly create metrics. This is useful in cases when metrics are only used to build other metrics.
```

> - **Support for Tableau Parameter filters** &mdash; Added support for Tableau Parameter filters. You can use [our Tableau connector](docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/tableau) to create and use parameters with your dbt Semantic Layer data.

Reviewer: sugg: capitalization since "Tableau Parameter" isn't a proper noun after some web searches

```suggestion
- **Support for Tableau parameter filters** &mdash; Added support for Tableau parameter filters. You can use the [Tableau connector](docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/tableau) to create and use parameters with your dbt Semantic Layer data.
```

- **Additional parameters for GraphQL API** &mdash;  Added support to expose `expr` and `agg` for [Measures](/docs/build/measures) in the [GraphQL API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-graphql).

> - **Improved error messages** &mdash; When querying a dimension that is not reachable for a given metric, you now have improved error messages returned in the command line interface.

Reviewer: sugg moving the "benefit" to the front of the sentence

> - **Entities in Tableau** &mdash; We now surface entities in our Tableau integration and these can be queried like dimensions.

Reviewer: sugg: simpler words than "surface entities" for tone to be more "user docs" than "engineering docs"
```suggestion
- **Entities in Tableau** &mdash; You can now query entities using our Tableau integration (similar to querying dimensions). 
```

> - **New Tableau Data Source** &mdash; We introduced a new data source in our Tableau integration called "ALL", which contains all semantic objects defined. This has the same information as "METRICS_AND_DIMENSIONS". In the future, we will deprecate "METRICS_AND_DIMENSIONS" in favor of "ALL" for clarity. 

Reviewer: sugg: sentence case (vs title case)

```suggestion
- **New Tableau data source** &mdash; A new data source is available in our Tableau integration called "ALL", which contains all semantic objects defined. This has the same information as "METRICS_AND_DIMENSIONS". In the future, we will deprecate "METRICS_AND_DIMENSIONS" in favor of "ALL" for clarity. 
```

## Bug fixes

> - **BigQuery numeric types** &mdash; Numeric types with precision greater than 38 (like `BIGDECIMAL`) in BigQuery are now supported and accepted. Previously, it was unsupported and would return an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **BigQuery numeric types** &mdash; Support for numeric types with precision greater than 38 (like `BIGDECIMAL`) in BigQuery is now available. Previously, it was unsupported so would return an error.
```

> - **Support for scientific notation** &mdash; Scientific notation for large numbers is displayed and correctly interpreted. Previously, they were unsupported. 

Reviewer: sugg: repeated info 

```suggestion
- **Support for scientific notation** &mdash; Scientific notation for large numbers is displayed and correctly interpreted. 
```

Author: happy for the conciseness! i had previous feedback to add 'previously xyz...' so that's how I've been doing it since i started.

> - **Google Sheets dimension values** &mdash; Dimension values are now accurately preserved instead of being inadvertently converted into strings. Previously, dimension values were incorrectly converted into a string.  

Reviewer: sugg: repeating info

```suggestion
- **Google Sheets dimension values** &mdash; We now preserve dimension values accurately instead of being inadvertently converted into strings. 
```

- **Multiple derived metrics resolution** &mdash; Resolved issues with naming collisions in queries involving multiple derived metrics using the same metric input. Previously, this could cause a naming collision. Input metrics are now deduplicated, ensuring each is referenced only once.

> - **Deduplication of input measures** &mdash; Resolve warnings related to using 2 duplicate input measures in a derived metric. Previously, this would trigger a warning. Input measures are now deduplicated, enhancing query processing and clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Deduplication of input measures** &mdash; Resolved warnings related to using two duplicate input measures in a derived metric. Previously, this would trigger a warning. Input measures are now deduplicated, enhancing query processing and clarity.
```

## Bug fixes

- **BigQuery numeric types** &mdash; Support for numeric types with precision greater than 38 (like `BIGDECIMAL`) in BigQuery is now available. Previously, it was unsupported so would return an error.
- **Support for scientific notation** &mdash; Scientific notation for large numbers is displayed and correctly interpreted. 
- **Google Sheets dimension values** &mdash; We now preserve dimension values accurately instead of being inadvertently converted into strings. 
- **Multiple derived metrics resolution** &mdash; Resolved issues with naming collisions in queries involving multiple derived metrics using the same metric input. Previously, this could cause a naming collision. Input metrics are now deduplicated, ensuring each is referenced only once.
- **Deduplication of input measures** &mdash; Resolved warnings related to using two duplicate input measures in a derived metric. Previously, this would trigger a warning. Input measures are now deduplicated, enhancing query processing and clarity.

> - **Correctly reference entities in filters using the object syntax** &mdash; Resolved an error where referencing an entity in a filter using the object syntax would fail. i.e {{Entity('entity_name')}} would fail to resolve.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Correctly reference entities in filters using the object syntax** &mdash; Resolved an error where referencing an entity in a filter using the object syntax would fail. For example, `{{Entity('entity_name')}}` would fail to resolve.
```
